**Building an application in Maven**
To build any application in Maven, the following steps to be followed:

Step 1: The project must be taken into our github account by clicking on fork in github and copy the URL.
Step 2: Now, create a folder in the local (i.e., in our system) and open gitbash in that folder and give a command:
git clone (paste the UPL here) --> this command clones or downloads the project from git.
Step 3: Now, to build the project, we need to install Maven, Java and Git.
Step 4: Open the project folder and enter cmd on the path of the folder --> this enters the particular path.
Step 5: Give the command: mvn clean install package --> this builds the application.
Step 6: First it checks the .m2 folder, to see the dependencies.
If the dependencies are not available, it goes to repo.maven.apache.org and starts downloading the dependencies from Maven central and 
those dependencies will be stored in .m2 folder.
Whenever an application is built, generates a target folder(.war file). This is deployed to multiple environments.
Step 7: Once after the build is succeeded, a target folder and POM file will be generated. Then open the POM file using notepad++ and 
check the Modules:
It describes that the application must be built, next need to built the dependency order. i.e., the project must be built in a particular 
order, otherwise build errors may occur.
Then the .war file will be generated in the target folder in the web folder.
Step 8: As Maven is a project Management tool, it means we can create a folder structure.
A folder structure can be created as: 
Create a folder --> enter into that folder --> enter cmd --> mvn archetype : generate (give the command to create a folder structure)
There may be many folder structures and we need to give a particular folder structure to the development team.
Even it asks for which project need to develop or create a folder structure.
Example: Give 110 folder structure, it starts downloading the dependencies. Then it asks for:
* group Id(Company name)--> e.g: com.Amazon.com
* artifact Id(Project name) --> e.g: Facebook
*Package(refer to group Id) --> e.g: asks if the details are right? (i.e., asks versions)
This successfully creates the folder structure.




